					The "VAMP" module for SWI-Prolog version 1.0
						Feature Extraction for SWI-DSP
					           David Pastor Escuredo 

1- Introduction

This is a SWI-Prolog module built on the foreign interface and the CPP package for SWI-Prolog. It provides a communication layer with Vamp Plugins for querying and computations triggering under Prolog predicates. This module defines a stable Vamp Host that controls the plugin lifecycle as defined in the Vamp API. For more information about Vamp Plugins please visit the site www.vamp-plugins.org (Chris Cannam).

The module provides also some higher level predicates defining procedures for feature-extraction and a "Transform" predicate that wraps the feature extraction process for Digital Signal Processing worflows creation.

vamp_transform is also offered to perform feature extraction queries under a unified predicate. With an easy predicate the user can query features by selection the plugin library, plugin identifier, options and queried outputs.

Parameters:

program(ProgName)
step(StepSize)
block(BlockSize)
parameters([parameter(Name, Value)|...])

Outputs are a list of feature terms: feature(Type, timestamp(Start, Duration), Data)

Timestamp is obtained interpreting the sample type as suggested in the vamp host guide. 
Data can be a Prolog list or a BLOBID. This choice is still under testing.

2- Installation

To run swivamp from Prolog, you need to set and compile the following modules in your machine

-swilib: a C++ library to handle large data objects by using atomic identifiers: BLOBIDs
-swidata: a SWI-Prolog module to handle BLOBIDs
-swiaudio: a SWI-Prolog module thar provides "signal" terms decoding a wide range of audio files
-Download the vamp-sdk from the vamp plugin site and set the folder in your swivamp path
-Download vamp plugins libraries and set them in one of the preferred plugins paths

So far, swivamp can only run in Linux and MAC OS/X

3- Run

Just launch pl from your swivamp directory and load the vamp module:

?- use_module(vamp).

If u just want to extract features, then launch pl and load the vamp_transform module

Check the html documentation in DOC/ for predicates instantation patterns.

4- Content

-swivamp: general type conversion C/C++<-->SWI-Prolog library for the module
-swivamphost: predicates to deal with the lifecycle of the plugin for any host. Using hostExt definition of Vamp API (www.vamp-plugins.org).
-swivampplugin: predicates to query data of the plugin according to the Vamp Ontology: http://purl.org/ontology/vamp/
-vamp.pl: prolog program defining the vamp module
-fe.pl: routines for feature extraction (host running plugins)
-transform.pl: top level predicate to set the feature extraction process inside a DSP workflow

5- Module name extension (vamp.pl)

vamp_xxx: predicates defined in vamp.pl. Normally general predicates. They can be used statically (just passing plugin keys)
vmpl_xxx: predicates defined in the foreign libraries. More specific dealing predicates for plugins. Must be used dynamically (with actual plugin objects)

6- SWIVAMP in DSP workflows

This module has signal(Sr, ListOfData) as input and uses BLOBIDs to read/write data objects (signal PCM channels and feature bins). Each feature is output as a functor term like this:

feature(Type, timestamp(start, duration), BINS).

Depending on the size of the bins and the output sample type the BINS term can be:

Prolog list: sparse outputs. These outputs define concrete events along the signal timeline.
BLOBIDs: dense outputs. These outputs define a signal characterizing the original signal and each feature defines a frame of it.

NOTE: now everything is a list. We are trying different approaches about how to interpret and present vamp features.

Interesting readings:

- Vamp ontology: http://purl.org/ontology/vamp/
- Music ontology: http://musicontology.com
- Vamp documentation and API: www.vamp-plugins.org

7- Bugs 

This version seems to be stable. Please report bugs to david.pas@gmail.com




